Blog post for the 0.63 release (#2024)
facebook/react-native-website: website/blog/2020-07-06-version-0.63.md

- **Syntax Error Formatting**: We’ve improved the formatting for syntax errors and added codeframes with syntax highlighting so you can see the source of the error, fix it, and continue coding without React Native getting in your way.

We’ve wrapped all of these features into an improved visual design that’s consistent between errors and warnings and allows paginating through all logs in one enjoyable UI.

With this change we’re also deprecating YellowBox in favor of LogBox APIs:

- `LogBox.ignoreLogs()`: This function replaces `YellowBox.ignoreLogs([])` as a way to silence any logs that match the given strings or regexes.
- `LogBox.ignoreAllLogs()`: This function replaces `console.disableYellowBox` as a way to turn off error or warning notifications. Note: this only disables notifications, uncaught errors will still open a full screen LogBox.

In 0.63, we will warn when using these deprecated modules or methods. Please update your call sites off of these APIs before they are removed in 0.64.

For more information on LogBox and debugging react native, see the docs [here](https://reactnative.dev/docs/debugging#in-app-errors-and-warnings).

## Pressable

> React Native is built to enable your applications to meet user’s expectations of the platform. This includes avoiding “tells”—little things that give away that the experience was built with React Native. One major source of these tells has been the Touchable components: `Button`, `TouchableWithoutFeedback`, `TouchableHighlight`, `TouchableOpacity`, `TouchableNativeFeedback`, and `TouchableBounce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native is built to enable applications to meet user’s expectations of the platform. This includes avoiding “tells”—little things that give away that the experience was built with React Native. One major source of these tells has been the Touchable components: `Button`, `TouchableWithoutFeedback`, `TouchableHighlight`, `TouchableOpacity`, `TouchableNativeFeedback`, and `TouchableBounce`.
```

> These components make it easy to get started making things interactive. However, because they include built-in styles and effects that don’t match the system interaction, they make it easy to tell when experiences are written with React Native. Further, as React Native has grown and our bar for high-quality applications has gone up, these components haven't grown with it. React Native now supports platforms like Web, Desktop, and TV, but support for additional input modalities has been lacking. React Native needs something that meets users' expectations and gives them the best possible interaction experience on all platforms.

Reviewer: Can we replace "easy" with something else? When I learned React native, these component were not easy to figure out.  Maybe something like:

> These components come pre-packaged with interactivity.

Author: Done.

> These components make it easy to get started making things interactive

to

> These components make your application interactive by allowing you to provide visual feedback to user interactions

> These components make it easy to get started making things interactive. However, because they include built-in styles and effects that don’t match the system interaction, they make it easy to tell when experiences are written with React Native. Further, as React Native has grown and our bar for high-quality applications has gone up, these components haven't grown with it. React Native now supports platforms like Web, Desktop, and TV, but support for additional input modalities has been lacking. React Native needs something that meets users' expectations and gives them the best possible interaction experience on all platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These components make it easy to get started making things interactive. However, because they include built-in styles and effects that don’t match the platform interaction, users can tell when experiences are written with React Native.

Further, as React Native has grown and our bar for high-quality applications has gone up, these components haven't grown with it. React Native now supports platforms like Web, Desktop, and TV, but support for additional input modalities has been lacking. React Native needs to support high-quality interaction experiences on all platforms.
```

> To address these problems, we are shipping a new core component called Pressable. This component can be used to detect various types of interactions. It can be extended by the platform to include things like hover, blur, focus, and more. We expect that most people will build and share components utilizing Pressable under the hood instead of relying on the default experience of something like TouchableOpacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address these problems, we are shipping a new core component called `Pressable`. This component can be used to detect various types of interactions. It can be extended by the platform to include things like hover, blur, focus, and more. We expect that most people will build and share components utilizing `Pressable` under the hood instead of relying on the default experience of something like `TouchableOpacity`.
```

Reviewer: It would be good to add something that explains the Pressable API design, like 

> With Pressable, the pressed state is passed to the function provided to styles. This allows you to...

Author: CC: @TheSavior - what do you think?

```jsx
import { Pressable, Text } from 'react-native';

<Pressable
  onPress={() => {
    console.log('pressed');
  }}
  style={({ pressed }) => ({
    backgroundColor: pressed ? 'lightskyblue' : 'white'
  })}>
  <Text style={styles.text}>Press Me!</Text>
</Pressable>;
```

> <p style="text-align: center; font-size: 12px">

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to extract inline style to CSS file and use `class` attribute since this could be useful for future posts (and generally for adding image captions in other places). There are also few occurrences (repetitions) of this paragraph styling in this post.

Author: Yeah, I can do that! I was surprised there was a missing class for this!

A simple example of a Pressable component in action
</p>

> You can learn more about it from [the documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/pressable).

Reviewer 2: The `/next` part in the link will be unnecessary after the `0.63` docs cut.

While it is possible to detect some of these settings via the [`Appearance`](https://reactnative.dev/docs/appearance#getcolorscheme) API and/or [`AccessibilityInfo`](https://reactnative.dev/docs/accessibilityinfo#isgrayscaleenabled) and set your styles accordingly, such abstractions are not only costly to develop but are just approximating the appearance of native colors. These inconsistencies are particularly noticeable when working on a hybrid application, where React Native elements co-exist next to the native ones.

React Native now provides an out-of-the-box solution to use these system colors. `PlatformColor()` is a new API that can be used like any other color in React Native.

For example, on iOS, the [system provides a color called `labelColor`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uicolor/ui_element_colors?language=objc). That can be used in React Native with `PlatformColor` like this:

```jsx
import { Text, PlatformColor } from 'react-native';

> <Text style={{color: PlatformColor(‘labelColor’) }}>

Reviewer 2: The decorated apostrophes has been used here instead of single quote character (this causes syntax error).

Author: I need to be more careful while moving from Google Docs next time.

  This is a label
</Text>
```

<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 12px">
Sets the color of the Text component to labelColor as defined by iOS.
</p>

Android, on the other hand, [provides colors like colorButtonNormal](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/R.attr#colorButtonNormal). You can use this color in React Native with:

```jsx
import { View, Text, PlatformColor } from 'react-native';

<View
  style={{
    backgroundColor: PlatformColor('?attr/colorButtonNormal')
  }}>
  <Text>This is colored like a button!</Text>
</View>;
```

<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 12px">
Sets the background color of the View component to colorButtonNormal as defined by Android.
</p>

> You can learn more about `PlatformColor` from [the documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/platformcolor). You can also check the actual [code examples present in the RNTester](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/master/RNTester/js/examples/PlatformColor/PlatformColorExample.js).

Reviewer 2: The `next` part in the link will be unnecessary after the `0.63` docs cut.

`DynamicColorIOS` is an iOS only API that lets you define which color to use in light and dark mode. Similar to `PlatformColor`, this can be used anywhere you can use colors. `DynamicColorIOS` uses iOS’s `colorWithDynamicProvider` under the hood.

```jsx
import { Text, DynamicColorIOS } from 'react-native';

const customDynamicTextColor = DynamicColorIOS({
  dark: 'lightskyblue',
  light: 'midnightblue'
});

<Text style={{ color: customDynamicTextColor }}>
  This color changes automatically based on the system theme!
</Text>;
```

<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 12px">
Changes the text color based on the system theme
</p>

> You can learn more about `DynamicColorIOS` from [the documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/dynamiccolorios).

Reviewer 2: The `/next` part in the link will be unnecessary after the `0.63` docs cut.

## Dropping iOS 9 and Node.js 8 support

After over four years from its release, we are dropping support for iOS 9. This change will allow us to move faster by being able to reduce the number of compatibility checks that need to be placed in the native code to detect whether a given feature was supported on a certain iOS version. With its [market share of 1%](https://david-smith.org/iosversionstats/), it shouldn’t have much negative impact on your customers.

At the same time, we are dropping support for Node 8. [Its LTS maintenance cycle expired in December 2019](https://nodejs.org/fr/blog/release/v8.9.0/). The current LTS is Node 10 and it is now the version that we are targeting. If you are still using Node 8 for the development of React Native applications, we encourage you to upgrade in order to receive all the latest security fixes and updates.

## Other notable improvements

> - **Support rendering <View /> in <Text /> without explicit size**: You can now render any <View /> inside any <Text /> component without setting its width and height explicitly, which wasn’t always possible. On previous releases of React Native, this would result in a RedBox.

Reviewer 3: <View /> and <Text /> don't show up.  Perhaps it needs to be in ``?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13405567/86595651-0a166d00-bf67-11ea-9e68-4a1f34fd3c6f.png)

Author: Good catch!

Author: I got warning while building about missing components and didn't really connect the dots!
